---
title: "Governance Advisory Team Meeting - 10 September 2025"
date: "2025-09-10"
summary: "The Governance Advisory Team discussed the Oceania governance action, noting its low DRep approval. A new SNEK budget info action was introduced, which has high DRep approval, but there were concerns about its KPIs and interest rate. The team discussed the need for transparent contractual details for the SNEK proposal and generally agreed to incorporate the need for more detailed loan terms information and contract transparency into their rationale."
---

> **Disclaimer:** These meeting notes are written from the perspective of the Cardano Foundation as a Delegated Representative (DRep). They summarize internal discussions and deliberations but do not capture every viewpoint or detail. For the official rationale and formal stance on specific governance actions, please refer to the [Rationales section](../Rationales/README.md).

## Attendees

- Nicolas Cerny
- Alexander Moser
- Matthias Benkort
- Megan Dyamond
- Siobhán Calpin
- Jakob Gideon

## Summary

The Governance Advisory Team discussed the Oceania governance action, noting its low DRep approval. A new SNEK budget info action was introduced, which has high DRep approval, but there were concerns about its KPIs and interest rate. The team discussed the need for transparent contractual details for the SNEK proposal and generally agreed to incorporate the need for more detailed loan terms information and contract transparency into their rationale.

## Details

### Oceania Governance Action

The meeting began with a discussion of the Oceania budget info action, which has a low approval rate from DReps. It was discussed that the low approval might be attributed to the proposal's lack of clear indication that it is a budget proposal, and the belief by some in the community that the treasury is not the correct funding vehicle.

### SNEK Governance Action

The SNEK budget info action, which has been resubmitted, was introduced. It has reached significant DRep approval, currently at 23%. There were concerns that the proposal hadn't significantly changed regarding KPIs. The proposal's inclusion of a loan structure, a five-year repayment plan, and involvement from Intersect as the budget administrator and an advisory board was viewed positively.

Concerns were raised about the absence of the contract between the administrator and the SNEK Foundation, which details the loan terms, default clauses, and enforcement mechanisms. It was suggested that contracts should be available for review during the treasury withdrawal stage in future budget rounds to provide greater transparency. It was noted that there is possibility that this will be provided at the withdrawal GA stage for the SNEK proposal specifically.
